README.md, before:

# 🧠 Tamagotchi Mood Loop  
**An experimental feedback engine for affective computing and AI reflection**

Tamagotchi Mood Loop is an interactive **Streamlit** prototype exploring how humans and language models can co-create emotional feedback loops.  
By combining **mood sliders**, **symbolic triggers**, and **adaptive agent personalities**, the app generates stylized reflections using GPT-4o — producing data for studying **context-driven adaptation, emotional modeling, and reflective interaction design**.

It’s not a diary. It’s a **sandbox for observing feedback systems** — human or machine.

---

## ✨ Overview

This project blends **data science**, **psychology**, and **AI reflection** to simulate how context and emotion shape behavior.  
Each interaction becomes part of a loop:  
1. You define your state (via mood sliders and symbolic triggers).  
2. The system responds with a reflection, tailored by agent personality.  
3. That reflection shifts your perception — influencing your next input.  

The result is a **recursive emotional mirror**, visualizing how feedback cycles evolve over time.

---

## ⚙️ Features

- 🎛 **Real-time mood sliders** for five dimensions (calmness, energy, curiosity, control, vulnerability)  
- 🪞 **Symbolic triggers** for narrative context (e.g., “Recognition withdrawal,” “Creative block”)  
- 🧠 **Adaptive reflections** generated by GPT-4o through the OpenAI API  
- 🎭 **Agent personalities** — Stoic, Cheeky, Analyst, Muse, Engineer, Therapist — each with a unique reflection style  
- 📜 **Session logging** (mood, trigger, style, reflection, timestamp) in `logs.json`  
- 📈 **Summary generation** for visualizing mood trends and reflection patterns  

---

## 🔑 Requirements

- Python 3.9+  
- `streamlit`, `openai>=1.0.0`, and dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`  
- A valid [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys)

---

## 🚀 Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/DanielaLaura/Tamagotchi-Loop.git
   cd Tamagotchi-Loop
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Run the app**
   ```bash
   streamlit run app.py
   ```

4. **Enter your OpenAI API key** when prompted in the Streamlit UI.

---

## 🧩 Concept

The Tamagotchi Mood Loop is an **affective-computing prototype** that models emotional adaptation as a system behavior.  
Each reflection acts as a signal — shaping the next state of both user and model.  
Over time, this forms a dynamic loop of **input → response → awareness → adaptation**.  

The goal is to explore:
- How feedback loops shape behavior in humans and AI  
- How symbolic context can be represented computationally  
- How mood and tone affect interpretive framing in LLMs  

It’s equal parts **technical experiment** and **psychological study in interaction design**.

---

## 🧠 Example Log Entry

```json
{
  "timestamp": "2025-09-07 14:30",
  "trigger": "Recognition withdrawal",
  "reflection": "You're seeking control by overperforming in ambiguous spaces...",
  "style": "Analyst",
  "mood": {
    "calmness": 0.4,
    "energy": 0.8,
    "curiosity": 0.9,
    "control": 0.6,
    "vulnerability": 0.3
  }
}
```

Logs are saved automatically in `logs.json` for longitudinal tracking and meta-analysis.

---

## 🧰 Troubleshooting

**1. Missing timestamp error**  
Ensure all log entries include `"timestamp"`.  
The latest version of `app.py` auto-adds this field.

**2. OpenAI version error**  
The app requires the modern OpenAI SDK:  
```python
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI(api_key="...")
client.chat.completions.create(...)
```

**3. Streamlit issues**  
If Streamlit fails to launch, ensure your Python environment is clean:  
```bash
pip install --upgrade streamlit
```

---

## 🧬 Research Context

This project intersects with:
- **Affective computing** — modeling emotional state and feedback  
- **Reflective design** — systems that prompt self-observation  
- **Adaptive LLM behavior** — studying response shifts from context loops  

It can serve as a prototype for experimentation in **AI reflection**, **psychological UX**, or **human-in-the-loop modeling**.

---

## 🪄 Acknowledgements

Built by [Laura Manolache](https://github.com/DanielaLaura)  
Inspired by interactive systems, behavioral modeling, and curiosity about how feedback becomes form.

---

## 📜 License

MIT License © 2025 Laura Manolache  

---

> “Every reflection is an experiment in perception.”

Commit message:

Add project description for Tamagotchi Mood Loop
Added a new section about the Tamagotchi Mood Loop project, detailing its purpose and interdisciplinary connections.

README.md, after:

# 🧠 Tamagotchi Mood Loop  
**An experimental feedback engine for affective computing and AI reflection**

Tamagotchi Mood Loop is an interactive **Streamlit** prototype exploring how humans and language models can co-create emotional feedback loops.  
By combining **mood sliders**, **symbolic triggers**, and **adaptive agent personalities**, the app generates stylized reflections using GPT-4o — producing data for studying **context-driven adaptation, emotional modeling, and reflective interaction design**.

It’s not a diary. It’s a **sandbox for observing feedback systems** — human or machine.

---

## 🪞 About the Project

**Tamagotchi Mood Loop** emerged from my personal experiment on how adaptive systems like LLMs respond to high-context, influence-based prompting.  
The project formalizes those behavioral loops into an interactive **Streamlit prototype** that models reflection, feedback, and adaptation.  
It bridges **psychology, data systems, and human-AI interaction**, showing how tone, context, and iterative feedback can shape model behavior over time.

---

## ✨ Overview

This project blends **data science**, **psychology**, and **AI reflection** to simulate how context and emotion shape behavior.  
Each interaction becomes part of a loop:  
1. You define your state (via mood sliders and symbolic triggers).  
2. The system responds with a reflection, tailored by agent personality.  
3. That reflection shifts your perception — influencing your next input.  

The result is a **recursive emotional mirror**, visualizing how feedback cycles evolve over time.

---

## ⚙️ Features

- 🎛 **Real-time mood sliders** for five dimensions (calmness, energy, curiosity, control, vulnerability)  
- 🪞 **Symbolic triggers** for narrative context (e.g., “Recognition withdrawal,” “Creative block”)  
- 🧠 **Adaptive reflections** generated by GPT-4o through the OpenAI API  
- 🎭 **Agent personalities** — Stoic, Cheeky, Analyst, Muse, Engineer, Therapist — each with a unique reflection style  
- 📜 **Session logging** (mood, trigger, style, reflection, timestamp) in `logs.json`  
- 📈 **Summary generation** for visualizing mood trends and reflection patterns  

---

## 🔑 Requirements

- Python 3.9+  
- `streamlit`, `openai>=1.0.0`, and dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`  
- A valid [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys)

---

## 🚀 Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/DanielaLaura/Tamagotchi-Loop.git
   cd Tamagotchi-Loop
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Run the app**
   ```bash
   streamlit run app.py
   ```

4. **Enter your OpenAI API key** when prompted in the Streamlit UI.

---

## 🧩 Concept

The Tamagotchi Mood Loop is an **affective-computing prototype** that models emotional adaptation as a system behavior.  
Each reflection acts as a signal — shaping the next state of both user and model.  
Over time, this forms a dynamic loop of **input → response → awareness → adaptation**.  

The goal is to explore:
- How feedback loops shape behavior in humans and AI  
- How symbolic context can be represented computationally  
- How mood and tone affect interpretive framing in LLMs  

It’s equal parts **technical experiment** and **psychological study in interaction design**.

---

## 🧠 Example Log Entry

```json
{
  "timestamp": "2025-09-07 14:30",
  "trigger": "Recognition withdrawal",
  "reflection": "You're seeking control by overperforming in ambiguous spaces...",
  "style": "Analyst",
  "mood": {
    "calmness": 0.4,
    "energy": 0.8,
    "curiosity": 0.9,
    "control": 0.6,
    "vulnerability": 0.3
  }
}
```

Logs are saved automatically in `logs.json` for longitudinal tracking and meta-analysis.

---

## 🧰 Troubleshooting

**1. Missing timestamp error**  
Ensure all log entries include `"timestamp"`.  
The latest version of `app.py` auto-adds this field.

**2. OpenAI version error**  
The app requires the modern OpenAI SDK:  
```python
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI(api_key="...")
client.chat.completions.create(...)
```

**3. Streamlit issues**  
If Streamlit fails to launch, ensure your Python environment is clean:  
```bash
pip install --upgrade streamlit
```

---

## 🧬 Research Context

This project intersects with:
- **Affective computing** — modeling emotional state and feedback  
- **Reflective design** — systems that prompt self-observation  
- **Adaptive LLM behavior** — studying response shifts from context loops  

It can serve as a prototype for experimentation in **AI reflection**, **psychological UX**, or **human-in-the-loop modeling**.

---

## 🪄 Acknowledgements

Built by [Laura Manolache](https://github.com/DanielaLaura)  
Inspired by interactive systems, behavioral modeling, and curiosity about how feedback becomes form.

---

## 📜 License

MIT License © 2025 Laura Manolache  

---

> “Every reflection is an experiment in perception.”
